---
published: true
title: eBooks
date: '2013-10-10 00:11:22'
---
I am worried.

I am worried by my relationship with my books.

I am worried by the fact that I do not read fiction nearly as often as I used to. This worries me because writers of fiction can explore complex, interesting and important ideas in a way that they cannot be, if addressed directly and explicitly. This also worries me because I believe I have become prone to letting others imagine for me, as film and television are wont to do.

I am also worried because reading is becoming more and more about data acquisition, parsing, and storing to me than the experience it once was. Maybe it is because of school (ironic, perhaps?), but I now do the vast majority of my reading in the form of many-hundred-page PDFs, with my digital notes strewn across their digital “page-scapes.” I use digital contents to skip to the particular essay I need (wish to?) read and treat the words on my screen as something to be acquired, rather than something to be experienced as the expression of another human being.
I am worried because today I shoved my face into the pages of a volume I purchased at Eva B’s to lose myself in the mildly musty odor of its still dusty pages, desperate for a sensory encounter with old paper and terrified that I might let down its potential future owners (I believe I am the third to own it): what if I never pass it on? Or even worse, what if I never get through it all? Or worse yet, what if I find myself compelled to obtain a digital edition of the texts and abandon those sweet, yellowed pages?

I am worried, too, because much as I miss the paper, and slowly revealing the next block of black, inked, serif in a near caress-like motion (I treat many books as if they could crumble at any second), I am easily lured back to the promise of “ctrl-f.” I find myself drawn to exportable digital notes and a cloud-based library that I can access anywhere with any device, even if I forget my Nook or tablet. I end up glad that I can take pages of notes and not have to find a place to store them, since they’re embedded in a PDF.
Is the digital worth it, though? Can it ever be the same? I do not think so. Much as ebooks and PDFs are practical, and perhaps the best tools for research, if I fall asleep reading Maddaddam (which I have on my Nook), I will wake up with some generic device (B&N Nook), with the image of a random author on its screen. It could be holding thousands of titles or none, all treated purely as data. If, however, I fall asleep re-reading my old copy of Oryx and Crake, I will wake up to a work of art which has travelled with me to multiple countries and continents, which I can smell, and touch, and hold against my chest, knowing that it is the story whose world, characters and author captured my heart.

And travelling with the Nook isn’t the same. Dragging a Nook around is very different to dragging a book around. There isn’t an author behind it that I can associate with. It is merely a tool which translates a work of art into discrete blocks of data (letters/words) to be displayed in a generic fashion. I believe the digital medium holds me one “layer” away from the true experience of a book. I think this is the case for a couple reasons. Primarily, I exist in a physical space and can more easily feel a connection with something that exists in the same space as I do, like a book. When I read an eBook, the Nook occupies that physical space, but the story I’m reading occupies a digital one which I will never be able to share with it. By losing this spatial connection, I cannot say that my eBooks travelled with me across an ocean, or to different countries. They are stored away safely on a server and my nook is simply a digital portal to that server.

I miss the physicality of my books. I miss the sensory release they provided. I miss the friends I made in them.

My eBooks are merely acquaintances.
